# Docker MongoDB Commands Readme

This readme provides an explanation of each Docker command used to interact with a MongoDB container. The provided commands assume you have Docker and MongoDB installed on your system.

### 1. Run Docker Container: `docker run -d --rm --name mongo-docker-container -e MONGO_INIT_ROOT_USERNAME='root' -e MONGO_INIT_ROOT_PASSWORD='secret' -v mongoData:/data/db mongo`

- `docker run`: This part of the command instructs Docker to run a new container based on the specified image.
- `-d`: This flag stands for "detached" mode, which means the container will run in the background and won't attach to your terminal. You'll get your terminal prompt back immediately after running the command.
- `--rm`: This flag tells Docker to automatically remove the container when it stops running. This ensures that the container is cleaned up and doesn't leave behind any artifacts after it's done.
- `--name mongo-docker-container`: This option gives a specific name "mongo-docker-container" to the running container. By specifying a name, you can easily refer to this container in other Docker commands.
- `-e MONGO_INIT_ROOT_USERNAME='root'`: This sets an environment variable in the container named "MONGO_INIT_ROOT_USERNAME" with the value "root". This is used during the initialization process to set the root username for MongoDB.
- `-e MONGO_INIT_ROOT_PASSWORD='secret'`: This sets another environment variable in the container named "MONGO_INIT_ROOT_PASSWORD" with the value "secret". This is used during the initialization process to set the root password for MongoDB.
- `-v mongoData:/data/db`: This creates a volume named "mongoData" and maps it to the "/data/db" directory inside the container. Volumes are used to persist data between container runs. In this case, the MongoDB data will be stored in the "mongoData" volume, allowing you to keep your data even if the container is removed.
- `mongo`: This is the name of the Docker image to be used for the container. In this case, it pulls the official MongoDB image from Docker Hub.

### 2. Run Docker Container using Local mount: `docker run --name express-docker-container -d -p 5000:5200 --rm -v "D:/Code/Docker/docker-express:/app" express-docker-image`

- This command is similar to the one above, but the only difference is the addition of -v "D:/Code/Docker/docker-express:/app", which means that instead of using a Docker volume, we are mounting it to a local machine.

### 3. Enter MongoDB Container Shell: `docker exec -it mongo-docker-container bash`

- `docker exec`: This command allows you to execute a command inside a running container.
- `-it`: The combination of -i and -t flags allows you to interact with the container's shell and provide input to the command.
- `mongo-docker-container`: This is the name of the MongoDB container to execute the command in.
- `bash`: This is the command to run inside the container, which opens an interactive shell. In this case, it allows you to use the MongoDB command-line tools.

### 4. Launch MongoDB Shell: `mongosh`

- This command simply launches the MongoDB shell, allowing you to interact with a MongoDB database.

### 5. Launch MongoDB Shell with Credentials: `mongosh -u root -p password`

- `mongosh`: This is the MongoDB shell command.
- `-u root`: The `-u` flag specifies the username to use when connecting to the MongoDB database. In this case, it is set to "root".
- `-p password`: The `-p` flag specifies the password to use when connecting to the MongoDB database. In this case, it is set to "password". Note that specifying the password on the command line can be insecure, and it's better to use other authentication methods for production systems.

### 6. Show Databases: `show dbs`

- This command is used to list all the databases available in the MongoDB server. It shows a list of databases along with their respective sizes.

### 7. Use a Database: `use products`

- This command is used to switch to a specific database named "products". If the database does not exist, MongoDB will create it for you when you insert data into it.

### 8. Insert a Document into a Collection: `db.products.insertOne({name: "productName"})`

- `db.products`: This selects the "products" collection within the current database.
- `insertOne({name: "productName"})`: This inserts a new document into the "products" collection with a single field "name" and the value "productName". Note that the "\_id" field is automatically generated by MongoDB.

### 9. Retrieve Documents from a Collection: `db.products.find()`

- `db.products`: This selects the "products" collection within the current database.
- `find()`: This command retrieves all documents from the "products" collection and displays them in the MongoDB shell.

### 10. Stop MongoDB Container: `docker stop mongo-docker-container`

- This command is used to stop the MongoDB container gracefully. It sends a stop signal to the specified container, and it will stop the MongoDB server and the container.

With this information, you should have a better understanding of how to use Docker to interact with a MongoDB container. Happy MongoDB-ing!
